the economy's headed towards disaster.
There's really no way around it. It's
going to crash at some point and
everyone's closing their eyes and
praying it doesn't crash. It's
completely engineered by the tech
companies. When that happens, then the
people cry for a king. A king can unite
them against the arch. And what a king
does is often cancel that. I think over
the next year, you will see these major
signals. You will see a more
strengthened relationship between China
and United States. very fast from 2028,
Trump runs as the vice president for the
Rep Republican party and Obama runs the
vice as vice presidential candidate for
the Democratic party. It doesn't really
matter who's who's at top top of the
ticket because it's really Obama versus
Trump. And in that scenario, Trump wins
easily against Obama.
>> I'm pleased to welcome back the show X
Shu Jing Jang, host of Predictive
History on YouTube and Substack. Check
out his work, YouTube channel link down
below. He's got a great channel and a
lot of interesting information there.
Welcome back to the show, Shu. I'm
excited to talk to you today about uh
China and the US uh the AI bubble in the
in the tech sector and as well the uh
future of uh digital currencies in the
west. So very varied topics today, very
top of mind topics. Welcome back.
>> Thanks a lot, David. Um thanks thanks
for inviting me back.
>> Yeah, for sure. We had a great
conversation about the Middle East last
time. Uh Jen was on and he talked about
uh what he thinks is going to happen
with the uh with not just the Middle
East, but the world. Check out the link
down below for our last interview. And
uh you know, potentially we're looking
at a third world war. Let's pivot from
that today and talk about first China
and the US. As you know, this week Jen
uh President President Trump and
President Xi of China met to discuss um
a new trade deal and some some uh
secessions were made on both sides. On
China's side, they agreed to not uh ban
the export of certain critical minerals
and uh on the US side, they've lowered
tariffs a little bit. Um and
additionally, China agreed to buy again
US soybeans. So, this is a good step
forward. Uh markets in the US uh didn't
respond negatively to this, although
there wasn't a huge surge either. In
your opinion, was this significant
progress or are we just treading on,
you know, the same ground here? Keep in
mind that there was supposed to be a
100% tariff starting November 1st today,
but obviously that's no longer
happening.
>> Yeah. So, I'm very optimistic about this
relationship. So, I think that um
President Trump and President C meeting
for the first time in 78 years. Um it's
it's mark a major turnaround in USChina
relations. I believe that in the next uh
year or two we will see a major
approachment between China and the
United States. And the reason is very
simple. Uh these nations are independent
on each other. Um China needs the US
market and the US needs Chinese to buy
US dollars. Uh it's that simple. Um so I
think for the past 7 8 years there was a
lot of posturing going going around. And
we have to remember in the first Trump
term um the relationship is very
different from the second Trump term. In
the first um Trump term there was a lot
of animosity between the two sides. So,
as you may recall, um, uh, the United
States, uh, kicked out Chinese
journalists and, uh, China retaliated by
kicking out, um, American journalists
from the New York Times, Washington
Western Washington Western Washington
Post and Wall Street Journal and they've
never returned. Um, the Chinese have
closed a um, American consulate. Um, the
Americans canled the Peace Corps in in
China. So, there was a lot of animosity
between these two sides and we don't see
that in the second term. So I am very
optimistic um about this relationship uh
improving over the next year. So
remember that um President Trump is
scheduled to visit China
um in April of next year and then
President C will visit United States for
a conference in December. And so I think
that over next year behind the scenes a
lot of major issues will be will be
hashed out and we'll see an improved
status between China and United States.
>> Yes. Uh so why even issue the threat of
a 100% tariff in the first place from
Trump's side that is
>> yeah so we have to remember that Trump
has a unique governing style uh he comes
from reality TV he comes from the world
wrestling entertainment system so he
likes bluster um you know before a big
showdown you know everyone all the
actors make a big talk make huge threats
to draw attention and that's what Trump
did in this in this situation um no one
really thought that Trump would actually
go through with the 100% tariffs. Um, if
you just watch the markets, um, people
were already factoring in the fact that
Trump will tackle, right? Uh, that Trump
would ultimately cave in and so and
that's why we didn't see a surge in
markets after the the meeting because
everyone just um price down um it
already ends. So, yeah, that's what
Trump is known for. He's known for
bluster and he's going to keep on doing
this, right? remember um what Trump's
like like li likes to do is
um play things up before um um I mean
it's basically drama right I mean uh the
one thing that you learn in TV is to
create as much conflict as possible and
then find a resolution and that's what
he did here
>> okay we have to look at what's ahead for
not just the US's economy and um
administration but also what's ahead for
China is about to issue in full their
15th 5-year plan. Um, they've drafted up
recommendations, but as I'm aware right
now, they haven't yet released the
details in full yet. Uh, a blueprint is
being drafted. Recommendations have been
announced. Um, this is this is some of
their recommendations. Now, again, the
full details haven't yet been released.
Um, it's they're meeting end of October,
which I believe is now. Greater sci-fi
tech reliance is one of them. Broader
opening up. According to pro uh commerce
minister Wang Wen Tao ch China will take
the initiative to open more broadly in
the next 5 years focusing on the
services sectors. Efforts will be made
to expand market access. Um this is kind
of uh building modernized industrial
system is another one and um we we this
is this is the information released by
the uh state council of the people's
republic of China so far. Uh, do you
have any more information about this?
And generally speaking, what are you
looking forward to for China's
development in the next 5 years?
>> Look, I I'll be very blunt with you,
David. I don't really pay much attention
to these 5-year plans like these
modernization efforts, focus on AI, uh,
creating, um, you know, a modernized
financial economy. And the reason why is
that China has has always had a problem,
and it's this pro it's a consistent
problem for the past 4,000 years, which
is an inefficient allocation of capital.
Whenever you have state planning going
on, um the capital always goes to those
who are most well connected to the
system. So those who are most um those
who are closest to power and the the
capital doesn't go to those who are the
most energetic, the most innovative, um
those who are going to actually produce
the product. And this this has been
consistent problem in the state planning
system in China for for the past 4,000
years. And so um they talk they talk a
bit big game but the reality is that um
capital has been monopolized by the
powerful and um there really um isn't
that much incentive for Chinese to
innovate. I mean that's just the reality
on the ground in China.
>> There there is a vibrant tech sector
right now in China that some say is even
rivaling the US. I mean how clearly
there there there's been some success in
innovating right? China of course has as
you know for example the world's largest
EV production right now uh world's
largest solar panel production so on and
so forth I'm just naming a few things um
so some would argue that this is kind of
working no
>> well I mean I mean we we can have this
argument back and forth but if you look
at the EV sector um specifically then
what a lot of Chinese economists will
tell you is that there's overprouction
in the system and the reason why is just
government subsidies have been flooding
the system and so China needs to export
these cars because China doesn't have
the domestic capacity to um to to to buy
up these these cars and that's why uh
the Europeans are kind of angry about
the situation because China's dumping
these cars in the European market at
very cheap rates. Uh it's very it's it's
debatable whether or not even China
makes money off of these cars and it's
destroying the European car sector. So,
so that's why people are kind of angry
at China right now. Um, but but again, I
think the problem is that you have over
capacity, you have uh poor planning uh
which produces um excess capacity.
>> There's these pictures of Xi Jinping
shaking hands with Trump now apparently
they're best friends or something like
that. The bigger question right now is
uh Jen, what is she's ultimate ambition
and what does Trump want for himself and
for America? ultimately do these
objectives or ambitions clash or can
they work together in the next few
years?
>> Right? So um in in geopolitics I think a
general rule that always applies is that
the conflict within nation states is
always greater more intense than the
conflict between nation states. So what
I mean by that is that both President C
and President Trump are looking to
consolidate their domestic power bases
and they do that by ensuring that those
who are loyal to them are inserted into
positions of power and so that's what
both are doing and they're both using uh
the these ch US China trade talks.
They're both using the geopolitical
landscape in order to uh achieve this
goal. So for President C um it's very
simple. He wants to continue to
consolidate his power base within China
and he wants a more um stable
relationship with the United States.
Those are those are his two major policy
goals for the next two four two to four
years. Before we continue with the
video, let's talk about our sponsor
today, ODU. ODO is a complete business
management suite trusted by over 15
million users across the globe. Whether
you're a freelancer or scaling a growing
company, ODU brings everything into one
place. Sales, CRM, accounting,
inventory, HR, project management, and
more. It's all fully centralized and
integrated. Your CRM connects to your
invoicing, your sales flow into your
inventory, and your HR tools sync with
payroll. Everything communicates in real
time, reducing manual tasks and errors.
And ODU grows with your business. Start
with one app for free with unlimited
hosting and support. Then add more as
you scale. When you're ready to go
allin, access the full suite starting at
just $24.90 per month. Check out the
link in the description down below to
try odu and simplify your business
operations. But is it true though that
China has ambitions to become a a global
superpower both economically and
militarily? And if so, does that mean
that there's going to be collision
between the Chinese and the US?
>> Yeah. So, at the beginning of President
C's term, he introduced a concept called
the China dream. And it's a very
ambiguous, very nebulous concept. And
people have been debating back and forth
what this concept means. Uh, Western
commentators believe that the China
dream is for China to rise in the world
stage and take a more assertive role um
to basically um shape the world
according to China's needs and
ambitions. I disagree with this
assessment. I think the China dream
really is about maintaining national
sovereignty about maintaining ter
territorial integrity. This means um
ensuring that China that sorry this
means ensuring that Taiwan does not
declare independence. That's a very
important part of the China dream. But I
think primarily China is concerned about
its own domestic issues and maintaining
um its uh national sovereignty and that
in and that includes um negotiating with
America and other great powers on a
peer-to-peer basis. That's what the
China means.
>> Do you think that China in the opening
up phase if it opens up even more could
risk uh destabilizing itself? In other
words, uh the government may risk some
sort of revolution whereby people demand
a democracy.
>> Um that's not likely in China. Um the I
mean democracy is a foreign concept in
China. There isn't really much of an
appetite for democracy. What people in
China want is um stability. They want um
some prosperity, but but they're willing
to, you know, the Chinese term is chool,
eat bitter. Um, so they don't have to
live they don't have to have the have
the American lifestyle of like, you
know, air conditioning, two SUVs, their
own house, but they they want uh life to
be stable, harmonious, and that's really
the the ch the Chinese dream. So, China
doesn't really want that much. Um, yeah.
>> Okay, let's talk about what's happening
with the US then, and uh the future of
the US. This is an interesting article
from uh NPR. Hundreds of scholars say
the US is swiftly heading towards
authoritarianism. A survey of more than
500 political scientists find that the
vast majority think the United States is
moving swiftly from liberal democracy
towards some sort of authoritarianism.
In the benchmark survey known as Bright
Line Watch, a US-based professor uh
US-based professors rate the performance
of American democracy on a scale from
zero complete dictatorship to 100, which
is perfect democracy. I'm not even sure
what a perfect democracy means, but
okay. After President Trump's election
in November, scholars gave American
democracy rating of 67. Uh several weeks
into Trump's second term, that figure
plummeted to 55. Okay. Um I I I haven't
seen the details of this particular
survey, it could just be partisan, but
if you just to look at things
objectively, is there any truth to some
of the sentiment here?
>> Well, I mean, again, if you look at the
um first Trump term, you compare it to
the second Trump term, it's night and
day. Remember in the first Trump term
there was vocal disscent uh in the
streets there were violent they weren't
violent protests but there were lots of
protests against the Trump presidency.
Um the the media attack Trump every day.
Remember uh back in the first uh Trump
term, there's something called the
Russia gate, right? Uh Robert Mueller, a
former FBI director, a conduct
investigation to see whether or not
Trump was an was a Russian agent. Um and
even within Trump's cabinet, there was
vocal disscent. Remember Mark Millie,
the um former chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff um basically said that
he told the Chinese, he called the
Chinese and said, "Don't worry about
this guy. We know he is a bit
unpredictable, but uh we're we have
control here. We're like everything's
under our control, right? So Trump
really didn't really have that much
power and he was always on the
defensive. Um the Democrats impeach him
twice. Um you know, after Trump um lost
the midterms, the Democrats immediately
started impeaching proceedings. So um
Trump was really on the defensive in the
first term. On the second term, it's a
complete opposite. Trump very much is on
the offensive. um these ICE rates um
it's really debatable what these ICE
rates are about right because you just
look at deport deportation numbers the
absolute number of deportation under
Trump is still lower than that under
Obama so um what's ICE for and some
people speculated that ICE is meant to
be um a imionic secret police they're
testing out the possibility of a secret
police now you also have have you know
the National Guard being deployed to
Democratic strongholds like Portland and
Chicago and there's talk of next year,
Trump deploying the National Guard to
all all states and now there's talk of
um war against Venezuela in the Middle
East uh possibly Ukraine and so and so
that gives Trump emergency war powers.
Uh Trump has has discussed the
possibility of invoking the insurrection
act. Uh Trump has played around the idea
of running for a third term. I don't
know how he'll do that, but I believe
that given everything that we've seen so
far, I think he has the intention of
possibly running for a third term. So,
um, we're seeing a rapid decline
democracy in America. I think it's very
hard to, uh, to miss. What's really
depressing to see though is the lack of
opposition. So, the Democratic party has
not been able to sustain, um, opposition
against Trump and we, we can see that
from the government shutdown. The like,
has anyone noticed that the the
government has shut down? Um, do people
realize that there are there will be
millions of millions Americans who will
not receive food stamps and they will
starve and there will be possibly riots.
um you know given the possibility of
civil unrest and possibly civil war, you
would think the Democrats would want to
quickly come to an agreement with the
Trump administration, but not they're
not doing that. They're just like
sitting back and wait and waiting for
the chaos to erupt so that can win the
midterms in um November, but next sorry
next November. But who says there will
be midterms next November? So um there's
really a lack of strategic foresight
from the Democrats. They're very passive
and because there's no effective
opposition, Trump can basically do
whatever he wants. Okay. Uh but
obviously the American people or the
people in the west would not accept an
authoritarian authoritarian uh
dictatorship or even a monarchy if the
opportunity presented itself, right? If
people voted, hey, you have here uh a
republic or you could choose between a
monarchy or some sort of dictatorship. I
mean,
I don't What do you think is going to
happen? Well, look, look, I mean, you
can make the legitimate argument that
the choice isn't between monarchy and
democracy. The choice is between
monarchy and olararchy. You can make the
argument that America has not been has
democracy for a long time. Ever since
2008, financial crisis when Obama bailed
out the oligarchs and screwed over the
people. Um, and you had co which even
further economic inequalities. Um and so
you can make the argument that for the
past 101 15 years America has
transitioned into a full scale arch and
you just you can just look at what
what's happening in the American economy
where and the only thing that's that's
up is the stock market and and only only
about like you know 1% or the top 10% or
90% of American stocks. So the system is
geared specifically towards the top 10%.
Member has become an argu if you look at
historically when that happens then the
people cry for a king. Why? Because
first of all a king can unite them
against the oligarchy and what a king
does is often cancel debt right um the
king his first act is often a jubilee
where he cancels the debts of the people
and the other thing that he will do is
redistribute wealth primarily land in a
way that uh furthers the interests of of
the people. So, if you're an American
citizen, okay, if you're just an average
American citizen, you're heavily in
debt, you know, you have a mortgage, you
have credit card um debt, you're facing
delinquency, your economic prospects
aren't that great, would you prefer the
system to stay as it is, or would you
prefer a king? Um, I would say most
people would choose a king. So, so, so I
I'll make you So, so so, so it's
possible that in 2028, it's very
possible in 2028, Trump runs as the vice
president for the Rep Republican party
and Obama runs the vice as vice
presidential candidate for the
Democratic party. It doesn't really
matter who's who's at top top of the
ticket because it's really Obama versus
Trump. And in that scenario, Trump wins
easily against Obama.
>> Interesting. Well, you've called Trump's
win. So, let's see what happens again in
2028. uh that that I don't is that is
that legal though for a for a for a
president to have run two terms to run
third time as a vice president? I I have
to look into that. Comment below if you
know what the legalities of that. Yeah.
>> Look, the famous thing is that it's
wrong. It's immoral.
>> It's unconventional, but it's not
>> illegal. Okay. I mean, so the the US the
US political system is built on
consensus, on norms, on certain values
that people share together. So you have
someone like like Trump come in. and he
actually doesn't share any of these
values. There's very little the
political system can do against this
this sort of person.
>> Let's talk about stocks. Now, you
mentioned the stock market. So, yes,
stocks are at all-time highs and
especially tech stocks that are leading
the charge. Tech is accounting for most
of the gains. Tech is accounting for
most of the capex spending in uh the S&P
500. And just today I learned from
another economist I was speaking to that
without data centers GDP growth in uh
the first quarter was only about 0.1%.
If you take that out
>> so tell us about your views on uh tech
and AI and the markets.
>> Look look I'm not an industry so I I
don't even know what I read in the news
but what the news tells me is number one
you have certain AI companies that are
financing each other. So, um, it's it's
essentially a bubble that they have to
all prop up in order to survive. Number
two is that people have not figured out
how to make money off AI yet. You know,
Samwin recently came out and said that
uh um, you know, open AI was will allow
sexing, right? That's that's a sign of
desperation. It it just it's just
telling people that uh, Chachi BBT they
haven't really been able to monetize it
properly. In fact, what what I've heard
um what I've read is that for every new
subscriber, CHATP loses money. Um it
it's just a money losing proposition.
Okay, that's number two. They haven't
figured out how to make money. Now,
third thing, and you point this out, is
the extra cost of these data centers. Uh
they're extremely expensive to run and
they suck up all communities uh fresh
water and electricity resources.
Americans are seeing their electricity
cost skyrocket. Why? because of because
these data centers are uh so expensive
to uh to run. And so you have this weird
situation where the entire economy is
just basically the AI bubble and these
corporations um are using government
subsidies in order to build these data
centers in order to exploit the water
and electricity resources of a community
and then passing on to consumer and they
still don't know how to make money off
this thing. So um I mean I mean the
economy's headed towards disaster.
There's really no um way around it. And
so the question then is can the
Americans manage an implode sorry can
the Americans manage a controlled
implosion of the economy and that's why
I think we're seeing a lot of talks of
civil war of social unrest because if
there's social unrest then you it's
possible for you to do a controlled
implosion economy otherwise everything
just blows up in your face. You know,
there's this um um journalist uh Andrew
Sorcin who's going around who's going
around talking about 1929. You know,
he's getting a lot of coverage and he's
saying, "Look, we're heading towards
another stock market crash." And this
sounds like predictive programming to
me. It's preparing people for the
possibility of a major financial
implosion within the United States. And
this financial implosion is something
that that they want to manage in order
to reduce the um repercussions and
consequences. So you think this whole
bubble is somewhat engineered by the
tech companies or I don't know what
what's what's causing
>> Yeah, it's completely engineered by the
tech companies, right? So if you if you
look at um the financing, it's these
companies lending money to each other.
It's like I give you a billion dollars
for a puppy and then you give me the and
then I buy and then you and then um you
give me a billion dollars for my I don't
know
It's circular financing. You're right.
It's it's it's it's companies investing
in each other um taking stakes in each
other and becoming bigger as as either
monopolies or like you said earlier all
the goalies. But isn't that good for for
investors at least in the short term? I
mean we're we're we're everybody they're
lifting the entire
the the high tide is lifting all boats
here, right? They're lifting the entire
market.
>> Look the reality is that America and
China are moving toward the same model
which is state planning, right? state
financing and again the issue that you
have is an inefficient allocation of
capital. The money should be going to
small-time entrepreneurs to you know
build restaurants to build businesses
that employ people. Uh the reality is
that AI uh the irony is that the more
successful AI is, the more the economy
loses jobs, right? So Amazon has
announced it's going to lay off like
30,000 workers. And this is just just
the like, you know, tip tip tip of the
spear, you know, like like if AI really
works, then you ideally uh you would um
um reduce employment by like millions
and millions of people. So that's the
paradox that America is um finding
itself in. If AI doesn't work, the
economy uh implodes. But if AI does
work, then everyone loses um his or her
job. That's kind of ridiculous situation
to be in.
>> So is there what would trigger this pop
in the bubble?
>> Well, I mean again, it's engineered,
right? So it's a controlled implosion.
So basically, it's basically these
companies getting together with the
banks and saying, you know what, uh
let's cash out now. Okay? And that's
what we saw in the 2008 um uh financial
crisis, right? Because remember it was
an engineered collapse because everyone
knew that uh the system was
unsustainable. Uh these banks were
heavily in debt because of CDOS's and
all that. But but what really started
the crisis was the fact that you had
these big hedge fund managers um taking
out uh bets against uh these cos. So
basically an engineer collapse. Goldman
Sachs were make was making a lot of
money off uh cos but what they realized
is they can make even more money betting
against their own cos and that's what
happened. I mean Goldman Sachs got
ridiculously wealthy off the collapse
and that's something that people don't
really discuss even though it was
Goldman Sachs who created the crisis and
it was Goldman uh Sachs who created the
collapse. Right now, the markets are not
signaling any sort of economic problems,
right? Um, everything's going to
all-time highs and there doesn't seem to
be a lot of volatility. Doesn't seem to
be a lot of fear in the markets. Do you
think that sentiment is an accurate
reflection?
>> Um, well, I mean, everyone has their
head in the sand because if you are an
institutional investor, right, if you're
a pension fund, if if if you're like,
you know, Black Rockck, Vanguard, like
like what can you do about this
situation, right? I mean it's it it's
just like pray and um hope nothing uh
happens. Um so you know this reminds me
of a joke where you know this car is
spiraling down a mountain at you know
100 miles per hour and the pass the guy
in the passenger seat is like has closed
his eyes and they land safely and then
the passenger says to driver how are you
able to stay calm all this time and the
driver says well I have my eyes closed
as well. Okay. And that's the situation
we we are in. The entire stock market,
the entire economy, the entire financial
sector, it's this car spiraling down a
mountain 100 miles per hour. It's going
to crash at some point and everyone's
closing their eyes and praying it
doesn't crash.
>> The other development is the
introduction of um the Genius Act over
the summer. So, stable coins will be
backed by US treasuries is what the act
states and uh this may be a precursor to
uh state issuance of stable coins. Um
and more broadly there's a large
movement right now to tokenize a lot of
real world assets and securities not
just by the state level but also by
large institutions. Black Rockck for
example. So tell us about uh the digit
digitization
of financial assets and whether or not
that's going to change your assessment
here.
>> Yeah. So um I think digital currency
tokenization it's all just a fancy
workar around the idea of financial
repression. Right. So when you have an
economy in this sort of situation where
a lot of people are in debt, where the
market is overheated, you need to
control financial transactions and the
way you do that is by creating a lot of
friction within the um um within these
thesections. This is something that
China has been doing for the past 2 to
four years. And listen, it's been
remarkably successful. Um and and so as
long as you have financial repression,
as long as people can't ever, you know,
do a run on the banks, that that's a
metaphor, but they they don't do a run
on on the banks anymore. But if they
can't do a run on the banks, then the
system is still stable and the system
can still chuck along even though it's
basically semicomaos.
Um so that's the idea of digital
currency. The problem though is how do
you get people to agree to digital
currency to trade like to stop using
cash? You can do that in China because
of co right because the co crisis
created this implosion of the financial
economy and it forced people to stay at
homes and it forced people to use um
software as a means of u daily
transactions. So the most common thing
was just to um get delivery people to
mail groceries and um goods to your
house and so that's what start the
introduction of digital currency. So
America needs to manufacture a crisis in
order to fully introduce digital
currency. Are you bullish then on
currencies, digital currencies, cryptos,
all cryptos, or just certain ones?
>> Well, I mean, listen, I'm not wealthy,
so if I had a choice, I put all my
resource into the US dollar because if
the economy gets worse, if there's wars
that break out, um, I still think the US
dollar gives me mobility, uh, gives me
flexibility. Um, all the currencies are
based on the dollar. Okay? I mean, it
doesn't make sense for me to buy gold or
Bitcoin because I'm not an institutional
investor. I'm not a long-term investor.
Um, and I don't have that much wealth,
but
>> this is an interesting topic that I want
to ask you about. Uh, the the
tokenization of the fiat dollars,
meaning putting it on a stable coin.
Would your life change? Would your life
be better if let's say the dollars that
you have are put in the blockchain. And
let's say, suppose you don't have a bank
account because you no longer need a
bank account. Everything you have is in
stable coins. You just put it in a cold
wallet or a hot wallet. you self-
custody your own money and uh you're
able to send money and receive money
from anywhere in the world without
friction instantaneously.
Would that would that be a future you
like?
>> Yeah, that's a great point. And listen
listen, I have to say this. I live in
China. I've been living in China for a
long time. The introduction of digital
currency has made my life so much more
convenient, right? Because now um every
transaction is seamless. I go to
restaurants, I use my app to pick the
the the items I want on the menu and
then I pay with my app. It's so easy and
it's so safe because I I'm never afraid
of losing cash. You know, um you know,
thieves are out of a job in in China.
The problem though is what the
government could do with this power,
right? Because it's very feasible that,
you know, he says something stupid
online and I have a tendency to do that
and the government says, "You know what?
We're going to teach you a lesson. So,
we're going to freeze this account for
for the next week, right? they can do
that with pro with with programmable
digital currency. So I'm lucky in that
that hasn't happened to me but you know
there are people who who who face this
issue in in China and so
>> everywhere in the world happening in
Canada
>> possibly everywhere in the world
possibly everywhere in the world right
so that's that's a that so with digital
currency you're giving basically all
your power to government because you've
um eliminated anominity from the economy
okay that's that's that's a concern with
with digital currency so yeah it makes
your life more convenient but it gives
the government so much power over you as
the individual. Also, remember digital
currency can be controlled. So, the
government can actually track all your
behavior and limit the way you spend
your money. Um, I mean that sounds great
because listen, that means you can't
gamble. That means you can't buy
alcohol. That means you cannot buy
cigarettes. It's aligned with government
policy and you know the entire purpose
is to make you a more healthy uh person.
But at the end of the day, that destroys
the social contract, right? That
destroys all your individual agency.
that destroys the entire idea of um
individuality. So, is that a future we
want?
>> Yeah, I guess good point. So, uh all
right. Uh it seems like we've got uh a
lot of problems to ponder. Shoo. Uh but
uh let's end on this note. Anything that
you're looking forward to in terms of
the development of not just our economy
but society uh that will greatly improve
our standard of living if there is such
a thing? Yeah, listen, I think that this
USChina relationship is key because um
you know, China has all this excess
cheap labor labor that it needs to um
export and remember before um the trade
war that started that Trump started in
his first term um Chinese goods flowing
to United States allowed Americans a
higher standard of living. Um and so now
that you remove um Chinese goods or mo
most Chinese goods then inflation has
gone up. So the situation is that China
is facing deflation, America's facing
inflation. So I think that if US China
relations weren't improve and China was
able to export um this deflation o uh
overseas then people's standard of
living would improve drastically and so
that's something I'm looking forward to.
I think over the next year you will see
these major signals that the US China is
uh reaching a reproachment and it's
entirely possible that you will see a
more strengthened relationship between
China and United States. Listen, at the
end of the day, China and states are
status quo powers. They want things to
stay the same. Russia, Iran, North
Korea, Venezuela, these are these are
revisionist powers. They want things to
change. And so um the United States and
China benefit from working from working
with each other as opposed to funding
each other. And I think that's something
that both nations have come come to an
inclus have come to understand after
many years of fighting. So I'm looking
forward to that.
>> Okay. Good. All right. Thank you very
much. Well, we're looking forward to
following you. Where can we follow your
work?
>> Yeah. So, um, if you're interested in my
geopolitical analysis, I write on
Substack. So, it's predictive history
Substack. Okay. It's I'm pretty easy to
find. I'm pretty easy to find if you are
on Substack. Um, I also have a Twitter
account. umang
um and then I also have a YouTube
channel channel channel as you as you
mentioned um so but if you really want
to um know more about my job analysis
then the best place is substack
>> okay good we'll put the links to
Substack and YouTube down below you've
written a bunch of interesting stuff so
please check it out thank you very much
for coming on the show once again Jen
appreciate it
>> okay well thanks for for having me it's
it's been a great conversation
>> thank you for watching don't forget to
like subscribe follow Jen down below.